[Music]
you know most buildings you see are
nothing special stone columns brick
walls we've seen it all before
but there are a few buildings out there
that let the imagination run wild at
Tommy OH towering over Brussels Belgium
the Atomium was built to serve as the
centerpiece for the 1958 World Expo its
shape was inspired by that of
crystallized iron atoms the building now
serves as a museum and the highest
sphere offers an impressive view of the
city the community bookshelf located in
Kansas City Missouri the community
bookshelf is the parking garage of the
Kansas City Public Library the front of
the building is lined with massive
concrete slabs resembling 22 different
books ranging from children's stories to
novels to the work of Greek philosophers
vo do solar furnace looking like an
office building kicked by a giant the
Audeo furnace in southern France is a
massive solar reflector used in
scientific experiments on a clear day it
can produce temperatures of six thousand
three hundred degrees Fahrenheit using
only the Sun the elephant building at
first glance this skyscraper in Bangkok
Thailand resembles a giant letter M look
closer and you notice the tusks eyes
ears trunk and tail of an enormous
elephant officially known as the Chiang
building this high-rise pachyderm holds
the record as the largest elephant
shaped structure in the world Lucy the
elephant and since we're talking about
elephants Lucy the elephant was built in
1881 as the head office of a real estate
company in Margate City New Jersey
Lucy was one of several elephant
buildings designed by the same engineer
but is the only one that survives to the
present day habitat 67 found in Montreal
Canada habitat 67 is an apartment
complex resembling hundreds of cubes
haphazardly stacked on top of each other
the apartments vary in size and layout
from Singh
room cubes to larger condos made from up
to eight connecting blocks the stone
house tucked away in the Portuguese
countryside you'll find what appears to
be a charming cottage nestled between
three massive boulders this isn't the
work of Photoshop but an actual house
inspired by the American cartoon series
The Flintstones Guggenheim Museum this
limestone and titanium wander overlooks
a Bilbao estuary in Spain the exterior
consists of curved and sloping walls
that Bend in seemingly random directions
the best angle to view the museum is
from across the river and the curved
titanium makes for an imposing sight at
night
Nautilus house you wouldn't expect to
see a giant mollusk shell in the suburbs
but that's exactly what you'll discover
just outside Mexico City in now kalpen
Mexico this beautiful house has made
from molded concrete and its interior
really does look like something that was
grown instead of built crooked house
called the Casa Vida Mack in Polish the
crooked house lives up to his name
this wibbly-wobbly structure is part of
a shopping center in the small city of
Sao Paulo
its distinctive look drew inspiration
from the drawings of polish illustrators
Yan Shan Sur and pear Dahlberg the
walkie-talkie 20 Fenchurch Street aka
the walkie-talkie is located in London
England the oddly shaped office building
features several restaurants on the
upper floors and a park called the sky
garden on the topmost floor pane shoe
house located in the small town of helen
pennsylvania the shoe house was built by
shoe salesmen in 1948 it was intended as
a combination advertisement and rental
property but has also been home to
several small businesses the Longaberger
basket building can you think of a
better way to advertise than to make
your business shaped like your product
that was the idea behind the Longaberger
basket building in Ohio the giant basket
is currently unused but
our plans to convert it into a hotel the
transparent house the transparent house
in Tokyo Japan is perfect for anyone who
loves natural light more than privacy
the walls are completely see-through
there are almost no interior walls and
no two rooms are at the same height also
I don't think they allow you to visit
the place carrying rocks because as the
old saying goes people who live in glass
houses shouldn't well you know the rest
wonder works if you're ever driving
around Orlando Florida you might come
across what appears to be a white
mansion flipped upside down
this is WonderWorks an interactive
Science Museum there are five locations
scattered around the United States each
with a unique appearance Koontz house
Graz if you've ever visited the Koontz
house garage art museum in Graz Austria
you aren't likely to forget it in
addition to the gallery's alien shape
the eastern face of the building is
covered in 930 fluorescent lamps that
can be used to display films and
animations on the side of the building
the dancing house looking like something
out of a Tim Burton movie is the dancing
house in Prague Czech Republic this
building made quite a commotion when it
was built
due to criticism that it clashed with
the architecture of the surrounding
buildings the montreal biosphere
resembling a big science fiction weather
balloon not sure if there is such a
thing we have the montreal biosphere in
Montreal Canada
the massive sphere was built for the
1967 World's Fair it currently houses an
interactive museum focused on
sustainability and the environment Eden
Project if you're a dome fan and the
biosphere wasn't scratching your Ridge
maybe you'll be a fan of the Eden
Project in Cornwall England these huge
plastic dome contain thousands of plant
species with the largest structure
housing the world's biggest artificial
rainforest
fulcrums Curia located in Reykjavik
Iceland
Holle grooms Korea or the Church of
Holger maher is the tallest structure in
the country it was completed in 1940 and
named after a 17th century Icelandic
poet Selfridges building
if you're ever in Birmingham England
take a peek at the Selfridges building
this steel and concrete structure is
clad in hundreds of a little bit of
disks the building is something to see
resembling either an alien spaceship or
a giant pencil sharpener Vall Speer Olie
the volge be Rolly or Forrest spiral in
Darmstadt Germany is beautiful from far
away but only gets more interesting when
you look closely the striped building
has over 1,000 windows and no two of
them are the same size and shape cube
houses the cube houses in Rotterdam and
Heldman Netherlands are anything but
typical each cube is tilted at a 45
degree angle and stacked together
creating a space that is both
interesting and efficient the ideal
palace
the ideal palace is a strange
castle-like structure in all Yuri France
it was built from found stone by a
single person over 33 years and almost
looks like it was grown instead of build
national fisheries development board
when India decided to construct a new
regional office for their national
fisheries Development Board they could
have settled for any drab office
building instead they constructed this
giant metal fish in the city of
Hyderabad sharp center for design this
checkered table like structure is part
of the Ontario College of Art and Design
and houses two floors of classrooms
offices and other facilities studying
there has gotta make for one memorable
college experience the mind house if
you're ever in Barcelona Spain it might
be worthwhile to peek at the mind house
it was built to resemble a life-size
gingerbread house and is one of two such
buildings flanking the entrance to wayy
park lotus temple as the name implies
the design of the lotus temple drew
inspiration from the lotus flower
not the Lotus race car sprouting from
the ground of New Delhi India the lotus
temple is built from 27 freestanding
concrete petals Market Hall located in
Rotterdam Netherlands Market Hall is
probably the closest that a building
ever came to being a kaleidoscope this
colorful structure serves as a
combination office building apartment
complex and parking garage casa mil
also known as lapa dara this impressive
structure in Barcelona Spain resembles a
mountainside with rounded windows
evoking the image of natural caves the
rooftop terrace is known as the garden
of warriors for the many chimneys that
resemble armored Knights the Montreal
Olympic Stadium nicknamed the Big O the
stadium was built for the 1976 Summer
Olympics it's famous not only for its
impressive size but for the convertible
roof and iconic curved tower rising over
the stadium hey if you learn something
new today then give the video a like and
share it with a friend and here are some
other cool videos I think you'll enjoy
just click to the left or right and
remember stay on the bright side of life
[Music]
you